---
title: "✨ From the Couv to the Shoug ✨"
excerpt: "So long to get here, so far to go..."
# media: ["a.jpg", "b.jpg", "c.jpg", "d.jpg", "drones.mov", "drones.mp4", "e.png"]
media: ['https://i.imgur.com/LQ0LFrG.mp4', 'https://i.imgur.com/HOJubNb.jpeg', 'https://i.imgur.com/bD3nlju.jpeg', 'https://i.imgur.com/1DzoBkE.jpeg', 'https://i.imgur.com/eP8gulm.jpeg', 'https://i.imgur.com/V9SRLsC.mp4', 'https://i.imgur.com/MSghBei.jpeg']
date: "2024-02-29"
---

## The first post from someone who doesn't blog
I'll be honest, I've struggled to keep up with others' blogs in the past. You read a few posts, then...life...

For what it's worth, we (and by we I mean Jean, because what do I know about social media) have an Instagram for the land development, linked at the bottom. I rather imagine I'll write this for the void, nobody in particular, and maybe then the habit will stick better than pen & paper journaling ever could.

I'm a dingus that doesn't really know what to do with a personal blog, but at least for now, this serves as a way to memorialize the construction of a dream I've had for roughly 10 years. My partner Jean and I bought 5 acres of raw R-5 property in southern Washington (Washougal, hence 'The Shoug'), and we plan to build our dream house here...or at least that was the naive plan at the beginning.

When I was working through my first degree in my home town of Anchorage Alaska, I had been having a tough time reconciling who I was, as I suppose anyone at 20 does. Sparing details, I'd made a dramatic bet with the universe (I suppose that's an atheist's way of saying myself) that I would find great success at any cost and build my own house. I figured maybe then I'd genuinely appreciate myself or something. Luckily I've long since outgrown all that 20's personal renaissance stuff, but the notion of drawing and building my house has never once wavered. I'm not sure if that's strength or short-sightedness, arguably it's both, but I usually seem to insist on following through with things I may or may not appreciate the scope of, even when I'd have been better off giving up. \
Sometimes that pays off, and I can flatter myself afterwards by calling it "*grit*". Plenty of other times, life humbles me and I realize I'm still a dingus, not actually gifted with any noteworthy strengths, and certainly no less immune to failure than any other dingus.

The spirit of the house's floor plan was born when I worked for a road construction company in Alaska, and my work truck blew the 2 back-left tires on my dually (two rear tires on either side, usually for 1-ton trucks and up) along with a rim weld. I got stranded going towards a big road project called "Top of the World", and had to stay in a small town called Glennallen. It was there that I met a mechanic named Bud (he swore that was his real name, but who knows), and although there is an absolute zero-percent chance he'll read this; thanks for letting me sleep on your giant dog bed Bud, that was real cool of you.

It was Bud's house from which the spirit of the dream house was born. Bud lived in a small loft-style living space above a big garage, something like a 4-car garage if memory serves. At the time I had really gotten into making furniture, it was a pretty consuming passion and it was where I was dumping all of my money (I'll admit I invested an irresponsible amount of money for a college kid). I spent the rest of that week thinking about the woodshop I'd build if I too lived in a loft above a giant garage. It's been roughly 8 years since that day, and I haven't entertained the thought of straying from this goal since.

Of course, this goal has matured a lot since. I worked in a few trades along the way to pay for engineering school, and after moving to the Pacific Northwest, met my partner Jean. She's smart, intuits most things far better than me, and had a lot of valuable input on the floor plan. Post-covid prices on all things construction & real estate are brutal, and it later came to light that building a smaller house first, then building the dream house and designating the smaller house as a '*guest house*' was a more accessible strategy.

And so here we are now, with 5 acres in Washougal Washington, getting started on the first house. Although unlikely, if even one person (hi mom) is still reading this, I'll be documenting the journey of construction, from timber-space full of thorns and brush to whatever it becomes.

I'm just so fucking grateful. I always said I'd get here, but admittedly I didn't always believe it. Thanks to my family, to Jean, to my friends, and to Bud.

### *Follow our land progress on IG!*
#### 👉 [`@buddynbean`](https://instagram.com/buddynbean)
