---
title: "Planning is Hard"
media:
    [
        "https://i.imgur.com/0Ge9cBS.mp4",
        "https://i.imgur.com/8vKkcyp.png",
        "https://i.imgur.com/ZXbPTIl.jpeg",
        "https://i.imgur.com/EHw6qxu.jpeg",
        "https://i.imgur.com/Cmupq0B.mp4",
    ]
type: "land-development"
---

## How to turn a forest into a home

I've worked in/with road construction, concrete, framing, flooring, roofing, drywall, and various other crap. But to set expectations here; only as much as a 31 year old with hobbies and other career ambitions could have done. Confident enough to get by, but certainly not enough to look you in the eye and tell you I could build a modern house from A-Z, and navigate all the building codes and county inspections in between.

Our first assumption was to buy a pre-fab home, as at a glance, it presented itself as the most cost effective solution. \
Do a little more digging, and you end up finding, at least in our area, that the builders have accumulated consistent complaints with quality.

One thing I learned was that '_pre-fab_' houses and '_mobile homes_' meant slightly different things to different people I talked to, nobody had a definition that agreed with another's. At a high level, the nuance is whether or not the house is assembled on site (most of the time), and if you've ever framed or drywalled before, you'd know that houses made by even the most attentive builders aren't square. This registered automatic skepticism with me, as a house with pre-built macro-components getting assembled like Legos seems too good to be true, and I read too many reviews that said it was...

We also considered that realistically, executing the construction of this first house with all of the utility infrastructure (as we call **_Phase 1_**) was going to be big in scope, and we'd likely take a while to save back up to build the dream house (**_Phase 2_**). We're gonna live in this guest house for more than a hot minute, so better not make it _too_ minimalistic.

For now, with Jean and I both having full time jobs, we're going with a general contractor we found in the area that had the most attractive small house floor plan we could find. I know they make most of their margins on modifications and up-sells, so we'll see how that goes.

Speaking of phase 1, the well and a gravel driveway, along with the transformer, were already established when we purchased the lot, which as you'd guess is a pretty big deal. Each of those things had big caveats however, there was a big mystery utility ditch dug out in front of the lot near the entrance, no power was actually delivered to our transformer yet, and the well needed to be tested for both flow rate and contaminates. The control box was left out in the rain for who knows how long and the capacitors inside are done for, so that needs replacement, and there's no well house to store filters and pressure tanks, so all of the downstream water processing from the well doesn't exist yet. Still, the well being there is undoubtedly a huge advantage.

After a lot of walking around and cutting through the thickest thorn bushes I've ever seen, Jean and I decided on a layout to place the homes (in the photo carousel above), which included a gravel driveway extension into a (possibly unnecessarily) large driveway. \
Yes Jean said I was crazy. \
Yes I know she's right. \
At least we'll never run out of parking space.

The ultimate goal is to plant trees/shrubs around the property boundary to make a continuous privacy screen, and to also continue that green wall up the driveway to hide the houses from the property entrance (the green in the sketch). It creates a slow reveal of the houses as you progress down the driveway, which I imagine to be quite satisfying, but the execution remains to be seen.

### _Follow our land progress on IG!_

#### 👉 [`@buddynbean`](https://instagram.com/buddynbean)
