---
title: "Falling into Place"
excerpt: "Finally seeing things moving..."
media: ["a.jpg", "b.jpg", "c.jpg", "d.jpg", "e.jpg", "f.jpg", "g.jpg", "h.jpg", "i.jpg", "j.jpg"]
date: "2024-04-14"
---

## Progress, yum
Things really feel like their moving now! \
We've got our carpenters for framing and siding, our foundation guy, electrician and designer accounted for so far. I'll do the roofing, jean and I can do the flooring and drywall, and after looking up the tool to distribute blow-in insulation, figured we might as well do the insulation ourselves too.

That leaves us with HVAC and plumbing, which is a work in progress. Our neighborhas helped us clear, and extended the gravel driveway (he very conveniently owns a gravel & septic company) and did our driveway and septic. Originally we were going to spread the driveway ourselves and he'd excavate it, but unfortunately it ended up being the case that you needed said driveway to get to where our septic tank was going ot get bureid, so it had to be done asap.

But I mean damn, I just happened to make friendly with a neighbor who can help move us past a few of the initial hurdles. Feels pretty lucky, thanks Ron 👋

Now I'm able to focus my attention on building the well house so I can plumb together the pressure tank and filters and blahblahblah. \
Except I'm wrong and I can't I do that, because now there's a giant pile of trees from the excavator clearing things. \
Time to get cutting. We plan to process all the brush & trees (pine & alder) as either firewood or landscape/mulch material. Finding an efficient rhythm will take some time. The firewood shed I'm planning to build is `5' X 16' X 6'10"` (H,W,L), so it doesn't take too many trees to fill that up, so we're mostly counting on being able to turn it into mulch for landscaping and filling low spots around the land.

Except, no again. \
The chipper's in worse repair then we realized, we're rush ordering some miscellaneous parts, re-greasing and swapping out the belts. It choked up too easy, and sounded like a lot of friction on the working shaft, along with some blunt blade plates. A bit of a side-quest, but hopefully when we're done servicing it, it can keep up with all the material we want to run through it.

Hope we can get through all these trees soon, I'm using an electric chainsaw for all this which is way too underpowered, so a gas saw is starting to feel inevitable.

### *Follow our land progress on IG!*
#### 👉 [`@buddynbean`](https://instagram.com/buddynbean)
