---
title: "Cutting & Chipping"
excerpt: "me turn big wood into many smaller woods"
media: ["img_8892.jpg", "img_8890.jpg", "img_8880.jpg", "img_8882.jpg", "img_8876.jpg"]
date: "2024-07-08"
---

## Lots of the same thing
Starting to plan for the shipping containers, and realizing we need need to move faster than we already are. Gahhhhhh

Jean's been feeding the chipper while I saw down the pile of trees (in the way of both the well house we need to build as well as the conex locations). It's a massive pile of work to do with little time to do it, considering we get most done on the weekends, we have weddings and such which take away some of those weekends (love you guys), and we're projecting the county to issue our construction permits and start inspecting things September 1st. This means we have to be ready to build the house by then, and time's running out. \
We rand into lots of issues with various pieces of equipment not working. Everything runs good now, but repairing things really ate up precious time too.

I had the idea of speeding things up by cutting large sections of tree so long as I could just barely roll them away (and lift one side to turn it). This has proved fairly effective, and the problem with the normal sized log stacks (the log stacks in between trees) is that you have to clear more brush and alders to make room for them, not forgetting clearance for walking beside it either.

Anywhoo, \
the much longer logs take up a lot of space themselves, so I picked up some linseed oil to make benches out of them, don't have time to de-bark them yet, but I think I'm about to answer the question "*how many log benches is too many*"...

### *Follow our land progress on IG!*
#### 👉 [`@buddynbean`](https://instagram.com/buddynbean)
